docs: add page for dashboard heading and text cards (#76353)
metabase/metabase: docs/dashboards/dashboard-markdown.md

---
title: Dashboard heading and text cards
summary: Add context to your dashboards with text and heading cards, including formatted text, images, dividers, and filter values.
---

# Dashboard heading and text cards

> Add heading and text cards to your dashboards to label sections, link to other content, display images, and more:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add heading and text cards to your dashboards to label sections, link to other content, display images, and more.
```

- **Heading cards** for a single line of text that titles a section

> - **Text cards** for longer text you can format with Markdown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
covered below.

## Add a heading or text card

To add a heading or text card to a dashboard:

1. Click the **pencil icon** to edit the dashboard.
2. Click the **text card button** in the top right.
3. Choose **Heading** or **Text**.

![Text card menu](images/text-card-menu.png)

To move a card, click and drag it. To resize a card, click and drag the handle in its bottom right corner.

Click a card to edit the text. Click away from the card to preview the text.

## Heading cards

> A heading card holds a single line of text. Use a heading card to title a dashboard or label a section of charts.
> 
> ![Section heading card](images/section-heading-card.png)
> 
> A few things to know about heading cards:
> 
> - The text is always left-aligned.
> - The text stays the same size, regardless of how you size the card.
> - You can't use Markdown in heading cards. Markdown syntax renders as plain text.
> 
> You can add a filter value to a heading card using a variable. See [Add filter values to a card](#add-filter-values-to-a-card).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A heading card holds a single line of standardized, left-aligned text. Good for labeling a section of charts.

![Section heading card](images/section-heading-card.png)
```

## Text cards

A text card displays text you write in Markdown. Add formatting like bold text, lists, links, and images.

![Text card Markdown example](images/text-card-markdown-example.png)

### Change a text card's alignment

You can set how text sits inside a text card. Open the card's **Visualization options** to choose its alignment:

- **Horizontal alignment:** Left, Center, or Right.
- **Vertical alignment:** Top, Middle, or Bottom.

> Vertical alignment is easiest to see in a tall card, where the text has room to sit at the top, middle, or bottom.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![Center-aligned text card](images/text-card-alignment-centered.png)

### Remove a text card's background

By default, a text card has a white background. To remove the background, open the card's **Visualization options** and disable the **Show background** toggle.

> Removing the background makes a card blend into the dashboard. Here's the same card with its background on (top) and off (bottom):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's the same card with its background on (top) and off (bottom):
```

![​The same text card shown twice: with its background on (top) and removed (bottom)](images/text-card-background.png)

### Add a divider

To add a horizontal line that separates sections of your dashboard, add a text card that contains three dashes:

```text
---
```

Metabase renders the three dashes as a horizontal line.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<img width="1166" height="283" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e1175607-f396-4e41-a96e-f028a5279c60" />

This divider looks pretty bad, even over plain background. Strike the whole section?

## Add filter values to a card

You can show the value of a dashboard filter inside a heading or text card. This lets you write text that updates when someone changes the filter.

For example, a card might contain:

```text

> Our revenue over {{Date}}:

Reviewer: Currently, Jekyll will think the double brackets are liquid code, so you''ll need to wrap this in raw tags.
```suggestion
{% raw %}
Our revenue over {{Date}}:
{% endraw %}
```

```

Then, when someone selects "Previous 30 days" in the connected filter, the card displays:

![Dashboard card variable](images/dashboard-card-variable.png)

To add a filter value to a card:

1. [Add a filter](../dashboards/filters.md) to your dashboard.

> 2. Add a variable to your card by wrapping a name in double braces, like `{{Date}}`.

Reviewer: Same deal here with raw tags.

3. Connect the filter to the card's variable.

A few things to know:

- A filter connected to a card changes only that card's text. It doesn't filter the charts around it.

> - You can insert a filter's value, but not query results like a number or table from a question.

Reviewer: This is noise. First bullet is self-evident; second bullet is irrelevant.

```suggestion
```

## Add an image

If your admin has [allowed domains for images](../configuring-metabase/settings.md#allowed-domains-for-images), you can add an image to a dashboard. Add a text card and use Markdown image syntax:

```text
![A description of the image](https://example.com/image.png)
```

> You can't upload an image to Metabase. Host the image somewhere else, then link to the image URL. The URL needs to be one your Metabase can access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can't upload an image to Metabase, only link to images hosted elsewhere.
```
